Configure|Set the paths to your game and mod folders. You may try the automatic search for them, then you need to validate. Only if validation succeeds can you continue|Mod Name can be set to anything you like.|Game Path is where the game is installed, some files are read from there.|Mods Directory is where the games are looking for the descriptor files.|Mod Path is where the mods files will be written to, the descriptor put into the mod directory will point there so the mod can be found by the game.
Drawing|Many tabs support a very limited drawing and editing functionality. Some require enabling "Draw mode", some don't.|Zooming into images is possible with Ctrl + Mousewheel.|Dragging is also possible, with Ctrl + left mouse dragging|Deleting is also sometimes possible with right mouse click.
Heightmap|In this tab, you can load a heightmap or generate a random heightmap. You can tweak parameters and regenerate.|The layer settings are complex and can be read up on in the Documentation.
Land|THIS IS AN OPTIONAL TAB if you want to generate a heightmap FROM a land input. Instead of generating a land mass from a heightmap, you may also derive a heightmap from a given land mass. For this, drag in an image. The tool will then try to derive automatically what is land and what is ocean. If in doubt, try to stick to the colours which are otherwise generated.|Last case is done by checking Classify Land Input. By checking the Classify Land Input box, you enable this feature. Now, when dragging in an image, you can afterwards analyze an image and label every single colour to a land type. Always click Analyse after labeling terrain, only then is it applied for the heightmap generation! |Make sure you have a good image without washed up borders, e.g. don't draw an image with a brush, but use a pencil. You might otherwise get far too many colours to label, this would be tedious.
Normalmap|A visualisation of elevations, the higher the sobelfactor, the bumpier the world map will look. You can load a heightmap in here to get a sobel/normal map generated from the input heightmap. Or this map will be automatically generated when you classify land.
Continents|A visualisation of detected continents. Dragging in images to specify continents is possible, black (rgb 0,0,0) is counted as water, while every other colour is counted as its own continent.|Find the generated map in the Maps folder, to use this as a base to edit continents.
Climate Input|An optional tab, in case you want to specify climate types instead of generating them.|To do this, drag in an image of climate zones, and label them accordingly with the given climate types that match best.|The tool will then derive the rest from these zones, such as province density.
Climate|Here, you can tweak many parameters to change how the world's climate will look like. Details on these can be found in the documentation.|Note that you can also load and edit the temperature map and humidity map.|Fantasy climate bases the whole climate on noise and therefore follows no real logic, don't forget to change the seed with "Get Random Seed" button if you want to see different variations.
Temperature|Load or generate the world temperatures, white means hot and black means cold|Modify the overall temperature of the world with the Base temperature option|
Humidity|Load or generate the world humidity, white means humid and black means dry|Modify the overall humidity of the world with the Base humidity option|
Rivers|Allows automatic generation of rivers and loading of river inputs. Loading of rivers is unstable.
Climate Gen|Allows loading a climate map with compatible colours, or regenerating the climate map from temperature, humidity and rivers.
Trees|Load or generate the tree coverage of the world. When loading 
Density|Either automatically calculate the density of provinces and population from the climate, or drag and drop in a custom density map. White means dense, small provinces, black means large provinces.|You may also simply use the auto generated one, which is based upon the habitability of the climate region. You can also edit this image with the brush.
Segments|This tabs allows input and generation of segments. This divides the world into regions that are later used for province generation, and for states in the scenario modules for the generated games. If you want to input a map of states, you can do that here, and the provinces will be generated inside the borders of these segments. This process might take a while!
Provinces|Here you can configure province generation and generate provinces until you are happy with the result.| You can also load a province map, by dragging in the province map image you want to use.|In case the generated province map is not quite what you want, you can find it in the Maps// folder, edit it with your favourite image editor, and then drag it in.|Landprovincefactor: The higher, the more provinces on land|Seaprovincefactor: The higher, the more provinces on oceans|Density Effects: The higher, the more the density map influences density and size of provinces|Minimum size of provinces: The higher, the more pixels a province will have|Maximum amount of provinces: An upper limit to province amount, increasing this drastically can have major effects on the generated game modules. For Hearts of Iron IV, this upper limit should not be larger than 20000, otherwise visual bugs start to appear!
Regions|Here, generate regions/states on a button click. As input, the segments and provinces are used. If you want more states, this is defined in the "Segments" tab.
Civilisation|Here you can generate and edit development and population in two sub-tabs|Development: Affects industrialisation and cities. You can draw in this tab, either by setting values for whole continents or by enabling Draw mode and setting it for single provinces.|Population: Affects population amount and city size. You can draw values for single provinces here.|Locations: Affects world map look and scenario modules make use of this data. You can only generate here.|
Scenario|A tab to edit settings for the currently selected game module.|
Countries|A tab to generate, load, and edit countries.|Loading is done by dragging in an image of unique colours, which represent a country each.|You can also load in a list of countries as a text file, to already define names, tags and colours, and then drag in the country image. For this, the country in the text file must have the format r;g;b;tag;name;adjective, see inputs//countryMappings.txt as an example|You can also edit the countries and states by clicking on them in the image, I RECOMMEND EXPORTING THE MOD FIRST, as crashes can occur here, there is always the chance to edit the state and country files manually!.|With the Draw Borders checkbox checked, you can also distribute regions to the currently selected country.|
Strategic Regions|A tab to generate strategic regions|Does not support loading yet, but does support editing.