Drawing;Many tabs support a very limited drawing and editing functionality. Some require enabling "Draw mode", some don't.;Zooming into images is possible with Ctrl + Mousewheel.;Dragging is also possible, with Ctrl + left mouse dragging;Deleting is also sometimes possible with right mouse click.
Heightmap;In this tab, you can load a heightmap or generate a random heightmap. You can tweak parameters and regenerate.;The layer settings are complex and can be read up on in the Documentation.
Land;This simple case is done when you simply want to derive a landmass from the heightmap. For this, simply set seaLevel, which influences the overall shade of the map and landPercentage, which decides how much land will exist. Then simply click generate and  observe the result.;Instead of generation a land mass from a heightmap, you may also derive a heightmap from a given land mass. For this, drag in an image. The tool will then try to derive automatically what is land and what is ocean. If in doubt, try to stick to the colours which are otherwise generated.;This extends the Simple Input case. By checking the Complex Input box, you enable this feature. Now, when dragging in an image, you can afterwards analyze an image and label every single colour to a land type.;Make sure you have a good image without washed up borders, e.g. don't draw an image with a brush, but use a pencil. You might otherwise get far too many colours to label, this would be tedious.
Normalmap;A visualisation of elevations, the higher the sobelfactor, the bumpier the world map will look. Not loadable.
Continents;A visualisation of detected continent. Dragging in images to specify continents is possible, black (rgb 0,0,0) is counted as water.;Find the generated map in the Maps folder, to use this as a base to edit continents.
Climate Input;An optional tab, in case you want to specify climate types instead of generating them.;To do this, drag in an image of climate zones, and label them accordingly with the given climate types that match best.;The tool will then derive the rest from these zones, such as province density.
Climate;Here, you can tweak many parameters to change how the world's climate will look like. Details on these can be found in the documentation.;Note that you can also load and edit the temperature map and humidity map.
Density;Either automatically calculate the density of provinces and population from the climate, or drag and drop in a custom density map.
Segments;This tabs allows input and generation of segments. This divides the world into regions that are later used for province generation. If you want to input a map of states, yo can do that here, and the provinces will be generated inside the borders of these segments.
Provinces;Here you can configure province generation and generate provinces until you are happy with the result.; You can also load a province map, by dragging in the province map image you want to use.;In case the generated province map is not quite what you want, you can find it in the Maps// folder, edit it with your favourite image editor, and then drag it in.;Landprovincefactor: The higher, the more provinces on land;Seaprovincefactor: The higher, the more provinces on oceans;Density Effects: The higher, the more the density map influences density and size of provinces;Minimum size of provinces: The higher, the more pixels a province will have;Maximum amount of provinces: An upper limit to province amount, increasing this drastically can have major effects on the generated game modules. For Hearts of Iron IV, this upper limit should not be larger than 20000, otherwise visual bugs start to appear!
Regions;Here, generate regions/states on a button click. As input, the segments and provinces are used. If you want more states, this is defomed in the "Segments" tab.
Civilisation;Here you can generate and edit the development, population, city and farm distribution in four sub-tabs;Development: Affects industrialisation and cities. You can draw in this tab, either by setting values for whole continents or by enabling Draw mode and setting it for single provinces.;Population: Affects population amount and city size. You can draw values for single provinces here.;Cities: Affects world map look and scenario modules make use of this data. You can draw in this map.;Agriculture: Affects world map look and scenario modules make use of this data.
Scenario;A tab to edit settings for the currently selected game module.;
Countries;A tab to generate, load, and edit countries.;Loading is done by dragging in an image of unique colours, which represent a country each;You can also load in a list of countries as a text file, to already define names, tags and colours, and then drag in the country image;You can also edit the countries by clicking on them in the image.;With the Draw Borders checkbox checked, you can also distribute regions to the currently selected country;
Strategic Regions;A tab to generate strategic regions;Does not support loading yet, but does support editing.